# 

/\* Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 2.5 \*
<https://spdx.org/licenses/CC-BY-NC-ND-2.5.html> \* © 2020 FreightTrust
and Clearing Corporation \*/

# FTN Rules of Behavior for Blockchain Network Users

As a FTN computer network user, you must understand and agree to these
rules of behavior prior to being granted access to the FTN computer
network which will provide you internet and intranet connectivity,
electronic mail, network file storage, and network printing capability.

\!\!\! warning "User Behavior on Network"

    By Connecting to the Freight Trust Network you agree to the rules setforth in this document ("Rules of Behavior") and the Freight Trust Rulebook ("RuleBook").

You are accountable for your actions and responsible for the security of
FTN information. Upon being granted access to FTN information resources,
you will be held responsible for damage caused to FTN information either
through negligence or a willful act. Failure to follow these rules will
result in disciplinary action up to and including termination of network
access and/or clearing participation in addition to applicable legal
action.

# RULES OF BEHAVIOR:

As a FTN computer network user, I will:

1.  Handle and retain all system outputs in accordance with information
    classifications and records management requirements (e.g. GDPR,
    Confidential, trade secrets, and/or propreitary information);

2.  Ensure the security of network information, equipment, keys, and my
    FTN Access card (e.g. hardware based authentication like a trezor or
    yubico);

3.  Not attempt to access information or information systems for which
    access has not been authorized;

4.  Not share passwords and/or my FTN Access card personal
    identification number and/or private keys;

5.  Not use network information, equipment, keys and/or my FTN Access
    card for activities that are illegal and/or inappropriate;

6.  Consent to monitoring and have no expectation of privacy when using
    the main network and/or the FTN blockchain network;

7.  Not attempt to install software onto network nodes that has not been
    expressely authorized on main net ("production network") nodes;

8.  Not attempt to connect personal devices or other unauthorized
    computer equipment to the FTN computer network without appropriate
    authorization;

9.  Not post private network information on external websites or
    services without prior appropriate authorization;

10. Not attempt to alter and/or disable Government computer
    configurations and security settings without prior appropriate
    authorization;

# Incidents and Reporting

Immediately report suspected computer security incidents and provide
full cooperation in accordance with your designated person of contact
and our rapid incident response team (NRIRT).

\!\!\! info "Central Network Operations Command"

    Network users have direct access to CNOC (see-nOK) 24/7 365 days a year. <br>
    Network Rapid Incident Response Team <br>
    email: admin@freighttrust.com <br>
    phone: ‪(628) 222-5915‬ <br>
    telegram: @freighttrust <br>

\!\!\! warning "WARNING NOTICE TO USERS OF FTN INFORMATION SYSTEMS"

## THIS IS A NOTICE OF MONITORING OF THE FREIGHT TRUST NETWORK (FTN) INFORMATION SYSTEMS.

This BLOCKCHAIN system, including all related equipment, networks, and
network devices (including Internet access), is provided by FreightTrust
and Clearing Corporation in accordance with the rulebook and/or policies
setforth in the "Omnibus Documentation" and/or "Rulebook". This network
is for official (i.e."business") use and limited personal use.

  - All FTN computer systems may be monitored for all lawful purposes,
    including but not limited to, ensuring that use is authorized, for
    management of the system, to facilitate protection against
    unauthorized access, and to verify security procedures,
    survivability and operational security.

  - Any information on this computer system may be examined, recorded
    and copied and used for authorized purposes at any time.

  - All information, including personal information, placed or sent over
    this system may be monitored, and users of this system are reminded
    that such monitoring does occur. Therefore, there should be no
    expectation of privacy with respect to use of this system.

By logging into this FTN computer system, you acknowledge and consent to
monitoring of this system.

**Evidence of your use, authorized and unauthorized, collected during
monitoring may be used for civil, criminal, administrative, or other
adverse action. Unauthorized or illegal use may subject you to
prosecution.**

By submitting this form, I certify that I have read, understand, and
agree to abide by the Rules of Behavior for Blockchain Network Users and
Warning Banner.

I understand that failure to abide by these rules of behavior will
result in disciplinary action.

# Notice

(c) 2020 FreightTrust & Clearing Corporation
