## Governing Law for Shipping Documents

Depending on where the goods are transported, a bill of lading is
governed by either or both:

The Federal Bills of Lading Act (Federal Act) (49 U.S.C.

    `§§ 80101 - 80116` see Federal Bills of Lading Act.

Article 7 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) (UCC §§ 7-101 - 7-603)
(see UCC Article 7).

The Federal Act and Article 7 are generally consistent with each other.
However, in transactions where both laws are applicable and there is a
conflict, the Federal Act governs.

<div class="note">

Federal Bills of Lading Act

</div>

The Federal Act governs bills of lading that are used in interstate or
foreign commerce. Specifically, the Federal Act applies to all bills of
lading that a common carrier issues for goods transported:

(a). Between a location in:

    (i) Washington DC and another location in Washington DC;
    (ii) a US territory or possession and another location in the same territory or possession;
    (iii) a US state and a location in another US state; or
    (iv) a US state and a location in the same state through another US state or a foreign country.

<div class="note">

From a place in a US state to a location in a foreign country. 49 U.S.C.
§ 80102.

</div>

Although the Federal Act governs bills of lading that are issued in the
US for goods traveling to foreign countries, it does not govern bills of
lading that are issued in foreign countries, even if the goods are
destined for the US.

## UCC Article 7

Article 7 of the UCC governs bills of lading when the transaction or
shipment relates to intrastate commerce. Article 7 of the UCC
supplements, but is generally consistent with, the Federal Act.

## How Bills of Lading Are Used

A bill of lading is an agreement between a consignor of goods and the
carrier transporting the goods. The bill of lading serves as both:

A receipt that provides the consignor with evidence of the goods'
delivery to the carrier. A contract that states the terms and conditions
under which the carrier agrees to transport the goods.

The parties generally engaged in a transaction involving a bill of
lading are: The shipper or consignor. The shipper or consignor is the
party sending the goods. The carrier or bailee. The carrier (or bailee
under the UCC) has possession of the goods and contracts to deliver
them. The consignee. The consignee is the party to whom the goods are
delivered.

The carrier or its agent signs the bill of lading and issues it to the
consignor. The consignor then typically sends the consignee or its agent
the bill of lading through mail or another means of communication.

Any kind of carrier can issue a bill of lading, regardless of the
transportation method (whether by land, water, or air). The carrier
issues the bill of lading to the consignor at either:

The place of shipment \[x\]. The destination point \[y\]. Any other
designated place that the consignor requests.

The carrier then delivers the goods covered in the bill of lading to
either:

The order of a consignor or consignee, if the bill of lading is
negotiable (for an explanation of negotiable bills of lading, see Order
Bill of Lading).

A specifically named consignee, if the bill of lading is nonnegotiable
(for an explanation of nonnegotiable bills of lading, see Straight Bill
of Lading).

## Information in a Bill of Lading

In addition to stating the shipping terms and conditions, a bill of
lading generally includes:

The consignor’s and consignee’s names.
