# 

    @title: Customs Broker Agreement
    @version: 19.25
    @copyright: CC-BY-NC-ND-2.5
    @notice: U.S.A Customs
    @file: customs-broker-power-of-attorney.md
    @params: [BRACKET]

# Customs Broker Agreement

This Customs Broker Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of \[DATE\] (the
"Effective Date") by and between \[BROKER NAME\], having a place of
business at \[BROKER ADDRESS\] ("Broker"), and \[CLIENT NAME\], a
\[STATE\] \[ENTITY TYPE\], having a place of business at \[CLIENT
ADDRESS\] ("Client"). WHEREAS, Broker is duly licensed by US Customs &
Border Protection to conduct business as a Customs Broker; and WHEREAS,
Client is engaged in business which includes importing\[ and exporting\]
goods between points in the United States on the one hand and points in
other countries on the other hand; NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of
the respective covenants and agreements of the parties herein contained
and for other good and valuable consideration, the mutual receipt and
legal sufficiency of which the parties hereby acknowledge, the parties
agree as follows:

# 1\. Definitions.

## 1.1 "CBP" means US Customs & Border Protection.

## 1.2 "Customs Duties" means any duties or taxes levied on imported goods under any US laws or regulations relating to imports and duties,

including the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. §§
1202 — 1683g), excluding any penalties, interest, or fines imposed
under any of the aforesaid laws or regulations.

## 1.3 "Disbursements" means Customs Duties, taxes, freight charges, storage charges, penalties, interests and fines, and any other

payments, including payments for goods on cash on delivery (COD)
shipments, made by Broker on behalf of Client.

## 1.4 "Protest" means a challenge to a CBP decision made under 19 U.S.C. § 1514, whether made on CBP Form 19 or otherwise.

## 1.5 "Services" means the services set out in Section 3 hereof.

# 2\. Appointment as Customs Broker.

    2.1 Client hereby constitutes and appoints the Broker as its agent to transact business on Client's behalf with respect to: (a) matters relating
    to CBP and laws and regulations administered by CBP; and (b) matters relating to the accounting for, payment and refund of Customs Duties, in
    respect of imported goods.
    
    2.2 Client agrees to execute any requisite CBP form powers of attorney as may be required to appoint Broker as Client's customs broker, in
    a form reasonably acceptable to Client.
    
     2.3 [Client hereby authorizes Broker to appoint sub-agents when and as required[, provided that Broker shall notify Client in writing of any
     such sub-agents[ and shall not appoint any sub-agent without Client's prior written approval]].]

# 3\. Services.

Broker will provide the following customs brokerage services to Client,
when requested by Client:

    3.1 Preparing or assisting Client in preparing documents required by CBP for Client's importation of goods into the US.
    
    3.2 Filing documents with CBP on behalf of the Client as required to clear Client's goods through CBP and making any necessary changes
    thereto, including preparation and filing of any required corrections, including but not limited to Post Summary Corrections.
    
    3.3 Services relating to entry and clearance through CBP of Client's imported goods, making payment of requisite Customs Duties by or on
    behalf of the Client, and obtaining release of the goods from CBP.
    
    3.4 Services relating to tariff classification and value of Client's goods to minimize Customs Duties payable in accordance with applicable
    laws and regulations, as well as submitting binding ruling requests or Protests as necessary.
    
    3.5 Services relating to Customs Duties refunds and duty drawbacks.
    
    3.6 Any other services necessary and incidental to the provision of the foregoing Services.

# 4\. Fees and Disbursements.

The fees for Services provided by Broker to Client pursuant to this
Agreement shall be in accordance with Schedule A attached hereto, as
such Schedule may be amended \[by Broker/upon mutual agreement\] in
writing from time to time. Client shall reimburse Broker for all
disbursements that are pre-authorized by Client in writing and incurred
by Broker on behalf of Client pursuant to this Agreement.

# 5\. Invoicing and Payment.

Broker shall issue invoices \[monthly/\[OTHER PERIOD\]\] to Client for
all fees and disbursements pertaining to Services rendered to and on
behalf of Client. Payment of all \[undisputed\] invoices shall be
payable net 30 days after the date of \[Client’s receipt of\] each
invoice. All payments shall be in US dollars and shall be made by check
or electronic transfer.

# 6\. Client’s Duties and Responsibilities.

Client shall provide to Broker all information reasonably necessary for
Broker to provide the Services, including all information required to
complete CBP documentation. \[Client shall review all information
provided by Client to Broker to ensure to the best of its knowledge that
the information is accurate and complete.\] Client shall review all
documents delivered by Broker to Client and, as soon as practicable,
notify Broker of any inaccuracies, errors, or omissions found by Client
therein; and advise Broker of any corrections or additions to be made on
such documents.

# 7\. Broker’s Duties and Responsibilities.

Broker shall provide the Services in compliance with all applicable
laws, rules, regulations, and other requirements of CBP and other
governmental authorities applicable to the Services. Client will have
the right to inspect and obtain, \[at its expense \]at any time, copies
of all licenses, approvals, or permits issued by CBP or other
governmental entity or agency to Broker or its subcontractors which are
applicable to the performance of the Services. Broker shall maintain, at
its own expense, all forms of insurance required by law, as well as a
comprehensive general liability policy, insuring against all types of
liability in such amount as is customary in its industry for the
performance of similar services.

# 8\. Representations and Warranties.

8.1 Mutual. Each party represents and warrants to the other party that:

    (a) it has the full right, power, and authority to enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder;
    
    (b) the execution of this Agreement by each of the individuals whose signature is set forth at the end of this Agreement has been duly
    authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of such party; and
    
    (c) this Agreement has been executed and delivered by such party and constitutes the legal, valid, and binding obligation of such party.

8.2 Broker. Broker represents and warrants that it is fully insured and
duly licensed by CBP to conduct business as a customs broker.

## 9\. Confidentiality.

Broker and its sub-agents, if applicable, shall keep confidential all
information and documentation provided by Client under this Agreement
\[and identified in writing as confidential\], and release such
information only to governmental authorities or the Client’s surety as
required by Broker for the purposes of providing the Services or as
required by law. Upon Client’s request, Broker shall promptly return all
documents and other materials received from Client. Client shall be
entitled to injunctive relief for any violation of this Section.

## 10\. Security.

Broker represents and warrants that it is a certified member of the US
Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) program, or if it is
not a member, that it shall comply with the CTPAT Minimum Security
Criteria for US Customs Brokers.\]

## 11\. Term and Termination.

This Agreement will begin on the Effective Date and will continue for a
period of \[one (1)/OTHER NUMBER\] year\[s\]. Thereafter, this Agreement
shall automatically renew on a year-to-year basis unless earlier
terminated as provided herein. This Agreement may be terminated at any
time by either party under the following circumstances:

    (a) if there is a material breach of any of the terms hereof by the other party,
    and the breach is not cured within [fourteen (14)/OTHER NUMBER] days after the complaining party gives written notice of breach to the defaulting party;
    
    (b) effective immediately, if the other party becomes insolvent, makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or is placed in receivership, reorganization, liquidation or bankruptcy (voluntary or involuntary); or
    
    (c) for any reason and without penalty upon [sixty (60)/OTHER NUMBER] days' prior written notice.

If this Agreement is terminated and there are any outstanding matters
pertaining to Client for which Broker has been engaged by Client, this
Agreement shall continue in force with respect to such matters until
such matters are concluded.

## 12\. Assignment; Successors.

Neither party may assign or delegate its obligations under this
Agreement, either in whole or in part, without the prior written consent
of the other party\[, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned, or delayed\]. Any purported assignment of rights or
delegation of performance in violation of this section is void. This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties
hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.

## 13\. Indemnification.

Broker shall indemnify, defend, and hold Client and its officers,
agents, employees, and affiliates harmless from and against all claims,
causes of action, damages, fines, third-party claims, penalties, losses,
expenses, costs (including reasonable attorney’s fees), and liabilities
Client incurs which relate to or arise out of any breach of this
Agreement by Broker or of any express or implied representation or
warranty by Broker, or any negligent or willful acts or omissions of
Broker or its subcontractors.

## 14\. Governing Law; Dispute Resolution.

All matters arising out of relating to this Agreement shall be governed
by and construed exclusively in accordance with the laws of \[STATE\],
without reference to its conflicts of law principles. Any disputes
arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be exclusively
submitted to a court of competent jurisdiction in the \[FORUM
LOCATION\]. The parties hereto consent to such exclusive venue and to
the jurisdiction of those courts and waives any claims of improper venue
or forum non conveniens with respect thereto.

\< FREIGHT TRUST ARBITRATION FORUM CLAUSE OPTIONAL \>

## 15\. Entire Agreement; Amendments.

This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
pertaining to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all
prior agreements, understandings, negotiations, and discussions, whether
oral or written. Notwithstanding the content of any Broker invoice or
any other document relating to the subject matter of this Agreement,
whether written or electronic, the provisions of this Agreement shall
govern, and any conflicting, inconsistent, or additional terms contained
in such other documents shall be null and void. Any amendments to or
modifications of this Agreement, may only be made by mutual written
agreement signed by an authorized representative of each party.

## 16\. Relationship of the Parties.

No partnership, joint venture, employee/employer relationship, or other
similar relationship exists between the parties except as expressly set
forth herein. Broker shall be responsible for its own costs and expenses
incurred in performing the Services, and for payment of any federal and
state payroll and self-employment taxes attributable to payments
received for its Services.

## 17\. Counterparts.

This agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of
which is an original and all of which taken together form one single
document. Signatures delivered by email in PDF format or facsimile shall
be effective and deemed to be original signatures.

## 18\. Miscellaneous.

All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and
shall be deemed to be duly given if personally delivered or if mailed
(by certified or registered mail, or by reputable commercial courier) to
the party concerned at its address as set forth on the first page of
this Agreement (or at such other address as a party may specify by
written notice to the other). A waiver by either party of any breach of
any term or condition must be in writing and shall not be construed as a
waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or any other term or
condition. No failure on the part of either party to exercise, and no
course of dealing with respect thereto, and no delay in exercising, any
right, power, or remedy under this Agreement will operate as a waiver
thereof. The rights and remedies set forth herein are not exclusive and
are in addition to any other rights and remedies available. If any one
or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall for any reason be held
to be void, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, such voidance,
illegality, or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of
this Agreement. The headings of the sections herein are for convenience
only and do not constitute a part of this Agreement. ===

\[1\] PROTEST An importer may challenge a CBP decision using an
administrative procedure set out in 19 U.S.C. § 1514. CBP provides a
standardized form, Form 19, but it is not required if the challenge
meets certain statutory criteria. For more information about protests,
see Practice Note, Importing Goods into the US: Overview: Challenging
CBP Decisions.

\[2\] CUSTOMS POWER OF ATTORNEY A customs power of attorney gives the
customs broker legal authority to act as the importer’s agent related to
customs business, including: Preparing and filing documents with CBP.
Classifying and providing values for imported goods. Paying tariffs,
duties, and other charges that CBP collects on imports. The power of
attorney recites the specific activities the customs broker is
authorized to conduct on the importer’s behalf, which should be
consistent with the services set out in this agreement. CBP regulations
contain a sample general power of attorney (19 C.F.R. § 141.32), but the
CBP form is unlimited and may authorize the customs broker to do more
than the importer needs or wants it to do.

\[4\] FEES AND DISBURSEMENTS This provision favors the importer, but the
customs broker may insist on including language: Allowing it to adjust
fees unilaterally if its rates generally change. Stating that the
customs broker is not obligated to advance any funds on the importer’s
behalf and instead that the importer must prepay any anticipated or
required disbursements.

\[5\] INVOICING AND PAYMENT This Standard Document contemplates an
ongoing relationship between the importer and the customs broker and
calls for regular (typically monthly) invoicing and payment. For
importers desiring infrequent or one-off customs brokerage services, an
ad hoc invoicing procedure, with the customs broker issuing its invoice
on completion of the services, may be more suitable.

The importer should include the bracketed term "undisputed" in the
second sentence to allow it to withhold payment of disputed charges. The
customs broker should try to exclude the term. For information about
payment terms, see Standard Clause, General Contract Clauses: Payment
Terms.

\[10\] SECURITY The Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT)
is a program established by CBP after the terrorist attacks of September
11, 2001. It allows importers committing to specified supply chain
security practices to receive certain benefits from CBP, including:

  - Fewer CBP inspections.

  - Shorter wait times for inspections at the borders.

The importer should include this optional provision if it is a CTPAT
member, because it must ensure that its supply chain business partners,
including its customs brokers, either:

  - Are CTPAT members.

  - Have processes in place to ensure compliance with the CBP’s
    published minimum security requirements.

An importer that is not a CTPAT member may include this provision as
well if it wishes. In addition to including Section 10 in this in this
agreement, the importer should also obtain back-up documents from the
broker confirming these representations and warranties.

\[12\] ASSIGNMENT; SUCCESSORS Anti-assignment clauses are included in
agreements to restrict the parties' ability to assign their rights under
the agreement, often by requiring the non-assigning party’s prior
written consent. Include the bracketed language at the end of the first
sentence if a party wants to ensure the other party cannot withhold,
condition, or delay its consent unreasonably. Assignment clauses also
often deal with the parties' ability to delegate their obligations. The
second sentence is included to render any assignment in violation of the
section ineffective. Without this sentence, the non-assigning party may
have only a breach of contract claim, but the assignment to a third
party may remain effective.

\[13\] INDEMNIFICATION This provision favors the importer by requiring
the customs broker to indemnify it against claims arising from the
customs broker’s breach of the agreement or negligence. The customs
broker should try to negotiate a reciprocal indemnification from the
importer for claims it may face arising from: Inaccurate information the
importer provides (see Section 6). Other claims, losses, and liabilities
relating to the import or export of the importer’s goods. Other
indemnities may be included in an accompanying transportation or freight
forwarding agreement.
